 				AUTOMATIC ATTENDANCE MANAGEMENT USING FACE RECOGNITION

This is my engineering final year project.
This project is developed to change the traditional system of taking attendance thus making it efficient and accurate at the same time using OPEN CV.

Description of the project:

Initially at the begining of the semister, multiple faces with various facial expressions of individual students are saved in a database of the class.
There will be a high defination camera installed in each class along with a computer which can operate that.
Each hour/period the faculty needs to run the main program in the system, authenticate and then log in.
The username is given in such a way that it describes the follwoing : first 6 charcted the name of database and the 7th onwards is the subject code.
Once logged in, faculty can give a command to click the picture of the class at any time he/she wishes uisng the UI.
Once clicked, it will show the number of faces detected. Once the faculty agrees to the number of faces, he/she can give a command to proceed further.
The program then comapres the faces with the ones already present and sends the result to the localhost, for further processing.
PHP is used in the server to update the database.

#NOTE:it is requested to copy this project inside python folder(where python is installed)

Description of the environment I have run this project:
1. windows 7 32 bit.
2. WAMP server.
3. python 2.7

python plugins requried:
1. numpy
2. Tkinter
3. CV2
4. CV
5. and others as well, look at the header files in each program and dowload those plugins.

This directory contains the following folders and files

folders: 
1. eigenfaces, reconfaces: this folder will contain the intermediate faces after comarison. Auto generated.
2. face: User defined directory storing the database of faces and other modules for comparison.
3. haarcascades: this contains all the algorithm needed for comparion (this case we used just face comparison algorithm)
4. include, lib, libs, Scripts, share, tcl, tools: inbuild python files.

files:

1. firstpage.py: this is the main program you need to run. It contains GUI elements for your ease. Rest all the modules are called using GUI.
2. capture_group_image.py: this program is used to capture the group image( when called by the main program)
3. face.py: Detect and crop the faces.
4. faceRecognition.py : for face recognition.
5. facultyLogin.py: module for faculty to log in and enter credentials.
6. resize.py: to resize the cropped image.

Rest all files doesnot have much effect, but better dont delete.

